# E-Network

#### Video Demo: <[URL HERE](https://youtu.be/bKJEhbwEPxI)>

#### Description:
This project is a social media platform that aims to be transparent & respectful of the user. It allows users to create accounts, share posts, and view a feed of content from their selected users. The feed is purely chronological, ensuring users see posts in the order they were published, which provides a predictable experience & minimizes tracking. By default, the feed is global. Users can filter their feed and view content only from a personalized selection of other users.

#### Features:
* **User Authentication:** The application includes a secure and robust system for user registration and login. It uses best practices to protect passwords and manage user sessions to ensure account safety.

* **Feed:** Posts from a user's selected connections are displayed in purely chronological order. This design choice is a deliberate step away from algorithmic feeds, giving users complete control over the content they see and enabling a more direct connection with the users they select, while minimizing any kinds tracking or spying.

* **Finder:** A 'Finder' feature allows users to search for other users on the platform, providing a simple way to view all users and choose whose content they want to see in their own feed.

* **Post Image:** The platform has an interface for users to upload images & write captions.

* **Profile:** This feature allows users to delete individual posts or to completely delete their entire profile from the system.

#### Files & Routes:
* **app.py:** This contains all backend: the flask routes, the database management, user request handling, session, et al.

* **fp.db:** This is the sql file that has 4 tables: users, posts, filter & likes (not used). It contains all persistent data of the app & does so with the 3 used tables talking to each other fluently with the help of FOREIGN KEYS.

* **templates/:** This directory contains all the HTML files. register & login are for user authentication. layout is copied mostly from week 9 finance. success is a simple page that users reach after registering & has a forward button to login. feed is default page after login & has all posts rendered with a loop order by timestamp DESC. profile is for current user's own profile management. public-profile is view only & displays other users' profiles. post is for uploading image. finder has a table which displays all users, has a filter function & also links to respective public-profile. delete-profile is the confirmation page to delete profile. profile-deleted is a basic page to notify users that there profiles were deleted & has a forward button to register.

* **static/:** This directory contains a CSS file & a sub-directory: posts/ that holds the images uploaded by users. The image names are generated by concatenating the user's username & their img_count. This ensures unique filenames.

#### Design Aspirations:
To make the interface as minimal & intrusive as possible. That's the reason for having
less pages & making more features packed into them, like filter & explore in 1 page: Finder.

To deliver solid core features that are reliable than to overly expand on a unstable foundation.
That is the reason for leaving out many features out. But even then, the platform has 2 features that even the most prominent social media platforms don't offer:
A purely chronological feed & a filter (to filter people from feed even if they follow).

To make pages as dynamic as possible. For example, there is a tiny detailing feature that was
achieved at the finishing moments: In feed, clicking your own link will render your own profile
instead of the looped public-profile.

CRUD is also widely used to manage persistent data: other than the obvious credentials,
img_count, filters, captions, timestamps are all stored safely in 3 different tables & worked without any database errors for the entirety of the testing phase.

Design consistency is also maintained across pages: All pages have familiar descriptions & buttons.

#### Missing features that were originally planned:
* **Follow:** This feature was quickly discarded due to the much higher complexity required to implement reliably. One original scare point for this one was composite keys, which was in fact learned for the filter funtionality later on.

* **Like:** This was in the original plans, but was not implemented due to some complexities faced in the backend. JS & AJAX are required for this one & I'm not yet properly initiated in either. Although, I planned to learn along, due to the already longer than expected dev time & effort required for this project, I decided to leave out this feature for this one. Not to cut corners, but to focus more on working features than ones that were unreliable. The laid table & backend delete functionality for likes still remain & I intend to keep it there as a reminder.

* **Dynamic Link Colors:** Active links change to black color from default grey. I did try this feature with JS & CSS, but despite putting in almost an hour, this didn't work. Probably couldn't override Bootstrap's classes. Although I did still learn a bit, like a tiny bit of JS & '!important' in CSS.

* **Global / Filtered Feed:** If active filters are applied, the feed would say 'Filtered Feed' instead of the default. Another feature that didn't quite work, at least not efficiently enough to implement.

* **Note:** While this is a final submission, the intention is to expand on the features with the info learnt here in the next project.

#### Disclaimer:

* **Demo Images:** The images provided as demo with this submission were found on Pinterest and are used here for purely educational purpose. I do not own them. All credit & rights go to the original creators.

* **Use of AI-based software:**For this final project, new stuff is learnt from 3rd party sources: Copilot, w3schools & bootstrap docs. It is done with a clear rule: Understand the code & its underlying principles before using it & do not blindly copy anything; the genuine intention is to learn new features.

Certain aspects such as login_required, session set-up et al. have been implemented by directly copying code from Week 9 Finance.
